# Security policy

Thank you for your interest in helping to make this software safer for everyone to use.


## Security concerns

[`epub-makefile`][project-repo] is a tool for generating [EPUB 3][epub-3] e-books. There are two areas of concern from a security perspective:

  * the generation of the e-book
  * the e-book itself


### E-book generation

`epub-makefile` is a [GNU `make`][gnu-make] compatible makefile, which means it is meant to be used by the GNU `make` program (or something compatible).

On its own, `epub-makefile` should never produce any malicious behaviour. However, for any practical use, `epub-makefile` will:

  1. include and execute user-provided makefile rules; and
  2. run a number of utilities (`zip`, ImageMagick, shell code, etc.) with user-provided code.

User-provided code could perform malicious behaviours, or exploit vulnerabilities in the utilities used (including the make utility).

  * **ADVICE:** Never use `epub-makefile` with book sources that you do not trust.
  * **ADVICE:** Make sure the utilities you will be using with `epub-makefile` (the make utility, the zip utility, etc.) are all up-to-date with the latest security patches.


### E-book consumption

`epub-makefile` produces e-books from source files provided by the e-book creator. The e-books produced could be vectors for security exploits and attacks.

`epub-makefile` itself should not introduce any exploits or attacks to the generated e-book. Given e-book sources that are not malicious or buggy, `epub-makefile` should never produce an e-book that is malicious or exploitable. If it does, that would be considered a bug, and a security issue, in `epub-makefile`. See below for how to report such bugs and security issues.

However, it will always be possible for a malicious creator to *deliberately* introduce exploits in their e-book sources, that will result in the generated e-book being a security risk. `epub-makefile` will try to detect such attempts at malicious exploitation, and reject the sources as malformed, but it is impossible to detect all types of malicious code. You should always be wary of e-books from unknown sources, whether they were generated by `epub-makefile` or not.

  * **ADVICE:** Never open an e-book you do not trust.
  * **ADVICE:** Keep your e-book reader up-to-date with the latest security patches.


## Reporting Security Issues

`epub-makefile` is not intended to be used by the general public, or in any user-facing capacity. It is a development utility, meant to be used by developers on an internal, non-public system.

Because of that, there is little motivation to keep any security concerns or potential vulnerabilities secret. Those using the software are considered to be technical operators, and would benefit more from knowing about any vulnerabilities—including unresolved, open vulnerabilities—than there would be to gain from withholding that information.

Therefore, the preferred method for reporting any security concerns or potential vulnerabilities is to use [the public issues reporting system in the project’s GitHub repository][project-issues].

If you wish to report a security concern, but—for whatever reason (concerns about exploit-ability, desire to remain anonymous, etc.)—are not comfortable making a public issue of it, you could:

  * Create an issue stating that there is a potential security concern, but not disclose the nature of that concern. Instead, provide some means by which you could be contacted, so that we can discuss the concern privately.

  * Contact one of the project maintainers privately. You could go to [the project’s contributors page][project-contributors], select one of the main developers, go to their profile page (by clicking on their name or avatar), and look for ways to contact them. Most active developers will list their email, or a website, or perhaps a social media account they can be contacted through.

In any case, a project maintainer will respond to any security concern as quickly as possible, usually in no more than 7 days.


## Disclosure policy

For the reasons mentioned in the previous section, any known security concerns or vulnerabilities will be publicly disclosed as early as reasonably possible. Usually there will already be a fix available at the time of disclosure.

However, if an issue is considered serious enough, it will be publicly disclosed *before* a fix is finished. Users of `epub-makefile` are advised to periodically check [the project’s security advisories][project-security-advisories], especially if they are using book sources from third parties.

In all cases, the person who originally reported the security concern will be credited with the discovery, unless they have requested to remain anonymous.


[project-repo]: https://github.com/DarkerStar/epub-makefile
[project-issues]: https://github.com/DarkerStar/epub-makefile/issues
[project-contributors]: https://github.com/DarkerStar/epub-makefile/graphs/contributors
[project-security-advisories]: https://github.com/DarkerStar/epub-makefile/security/advisories
[epub-3]: https://www.w3.org/publishing/epub3/
[gnu-make]: https://www.gnu.org/software/make/
